'\" t
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"
.\"     Copyright (C) 2015-2024 Richard Russon <rich@flatcap.org>
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH NEOMUTT 1 @MAN_DATE@ Unix "User Manuals"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
neomutt
\-
The NeoMutt Mail User Agent (MUA)
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNTAX
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-E | \-\-edit\-message ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.RB [ \-H | \-\-draft \~\c
.IR draft ]
.RB [ \-i | \-\-include \~\c
.IR include ]
.RB [ \-b | \-\-bcc \~\c
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-cc \~\c
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-subject \~\c
.IR subject ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-attach \~\c
.IR file ]\~.\|.\|.\&
.RB [ \-\- ]
.IR address \~.\|.\|.
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.RB [ \-b | \-\-bcc \~\c
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-c | \-\-cc \~\c
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-subject \~\c
.IR subject ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-attach \~\c
.IR file ]\~.\|.\|.\&
.RB [ \-\- ]
.IR address \~.\|.\|.\&
.BI <\~ message
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-R | \-\-read\-only ]
.RB [ \-y | \-\-browser ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-folder \~\c
.IR mailbox ]
.RB [ \-m | \-\-mbox\-type \~\c
.IR type ]
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-A | \-\-alias \~\c
.IR alias
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.B \-B
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-D | \-\-dump\-config | \-DD | \-\-dump-changed
.RB [ \-S | \-\-hide\-sensitive ]
.RB [ \-O | \-\-with\-docs ]
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-d | \-\-debug\-level \~\c
.IR level
.BR \-l | \-\-debug\-file \~\c
.IR file
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-G | \-\-nntp\-browser
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-g | \-\-nntp\-server \~\c
.IR server
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-p | \-\-postponed
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-Q | \-\-query \~\c
.IR variable
.RB [ \-O | \-\-with\-docs ]
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-Z | \-\-check\-new\-mail
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.RB [ \-n | \-\-no\-system\-config ]
.RB [ \-e | \-\-command \~\c
.IR command ]
.RB [ \-F | \-\-config \~\c
.IR config ]
.BR \-z | \-\-check\-any\-mail
.RB [ \-f | \-\-folder \~\c
.IR mailbox ]
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.BR \-v | \-\-version | \-vv | \-\-license
.YS
.
.SY neomutt
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.YS
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
NeoMutt is a small but very powerful
text based program for reading and sending electronic mail
under Unix operating systems,
including support for
color terminals,
MIME,
OpenPGP,
and a threaded sorting mode.
.
.PP
.B Note:
This manual page gives a brief overview of NeoMutt's command line options.
You should find a copy of the full manual in \fI@MAN_DOCDIR@\fP,
in plain text,
HTML,
and/or PDF format.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP
.B \-\-
Special argument forces NeoMutt to stop option parsing and
treat remaining arguments as \fIaddress\fPes even if they start with a dash
.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-alias " " \fIalias\fP
Print an expanded version of the given \fIalias\fP to stdout and exit
.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-attach " " \fIfile\fP
Attach one or more \fIfile\fPs to a message (must be the last option).
Add any addresses after the \(aq\fB\-\-\fP\(aq argument, e.g.:
.RS
.IP
.EX
.BI "neomutt \-a " "image.jpg " "\-\- " "address1"
.BI "neomutt \-a " "image.jpg *.png " "\-\- " "address1 address2"
.EE
.RE
.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bcc " " \fIaddress\fP
Specify a blind carbon copy (Bcc) recipient
.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-crypto
Enable cryptographic operations
in the cases in which they're disabled by default.
Those include:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 3
Batch mode.
.IP \(bu
Sending a postponed message.
.IP \(bu
Resending a message.
.PD
.RE
.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cc " " \fIaddress\fP
Specify a carbon copy (Cc) recipient
.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-dump\-config
Dump all configuration variables as
.RB \(aq name = value \(aq
pairs to stdout
.
.TP
.B \-DD ", " \-\-dump\-changed\-config
Like \fB\-D\fP, but only show the config that has changed
.
.TP
.BR "\-D \-O" ", " "\-\-dump\-config \-\-with\-docs"
Like \fB\-D\fP, but show one-liner documentation
.
.TP
.BR "\-D \-S" ", " "\-\-dump\-config \-\-hide\-sensitive"
Like \fB\-D\fP, but hide the value of sensitive variables
.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\-level " " \fIlevel\fP
Log debugging output to a file (default is \(dq\fI~/.neomuttdebug0\fP\(dq).
The \fIlevel\fP can range from 1\(en5 and affects verbosity
(a value of 2 is recommended)
.IP
Using this option along with \fB\-l\fP is useful
to log the early startup process
(before reading any configuration and hence $debug_level and $debug_file)
.
.TP
.BR \-E ", " \-\-edit\-message
Edit \fIdraft\fP (\fB\-H\fP) or \fIinclude\fP (\fB\-i\fP) file
during message composition
.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-command " " \fIcommand\fP
Specify a \fIcommand\fP to be run after reading the config files
.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-config " " \fIconfig\fP
Specify an alternative initialization file to read,
see \fIFILES\fP section below for a list of regular configuration files
.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-folder " " \fImailbox\fP
Specify a \fImailbox\fP (as defined with \fBmailboxes\fP command) to load
.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-nntp\-browser
Start NeoMutt with a listing of subscribed newsgroups
.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-nntp\-server " " \fIserver\fP
Like \fB\-G\fP, but start at specified news \fIserver\fP
.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-draft " " \fIdraft\fP
Specify a \fIdraft\fP file which contains header and body to use to
send a message.  If \fIdraft\fP is \*(lq\fB\-\fP\*(rq, then data is
read from stdin.  The draft file is expected to contain just an RFC822
email \(em headers and a body.  Although it is not an mbox file, if an
mbox "\fBFrom\~\fP" line is present, it will be silently discarded.
Draft files are processed the same in interactive and batch mode; they
are not passed through untouched.  For example, encrypted draft files
will be decrypted.
.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print this help message and exit
.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-include " " \fIinclude\fP
Specify an \fIinclude\fP file to be embedded in the body of a message
.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-debug\-file " " \fIfile\fP
Specify a \fIfile\fP for debugging output (default
\(dq\fI~/.neomuttdebug0\fP\(dq)
.IP
This overrules $debug_file setting and NeoMutt keeps up to five debug logs
.RI "({ " file " | $debug_file | " ~/.neomuttdebug " }[" 0 - 4 ])
before override the oldest file
.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mbox\-type " " \fItype\fP
Specify a default mailbox format \fItype\fP for newly created folders
.IP
The \fItype\fP is either MH, MMDF, Maildir or mbox (case-insensitive)
.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-system\-config
Do not read the system-wide configuration file
.
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\-with\-docs
Show one-liner documentation (used with \fB\-D\fP or \fB\-Q\fP)
.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-postponed
Resume a prior postponed message, if any
.
.TP
.BR \-Q ", " \-\-query " " \fIvariable\fP
Query a configuration \fIvariable\fP and print its value to stdout
(after the config has been read and any commands executed).
Add \-O for one-liner documentation.
.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-read\-only
Open mailbox in read-only mode
.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-hide\-sensitive
Hide the value of sensitive variables (used with \fB\-D\fP)
.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-subject " " \fIsubject\fP
Specify a \fIsubject\fP
(must be enclosed in quotes if it has spaces)
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the NeoMutt version and compile-time definitions and exit
.
.TP
.B \-vv ", " \-\-license
Print the NeoMutt license and copyright information and exit
.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-browser
Start NeoMutt with a listing of all defined mailboxes
.
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-check\-new\-mail
Open the first mailbox with new message
or exit immediately with exit code 1
if none is found in all defined mailboxes
.
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-check\-any\-mail
Open the first or specified (\fB\-f\fP) mailbox
if it holds any message
or exit immediately with exit code 1 otherwise
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP
.SM
.B EDITOR
Specifies the editor to use if \fIVISUAL\fP is unset.
Defaults to the \fBVi\fP editor if unset.
.
.TP
.SM
.B EGDSOCKET
For OpenSSL since version 0.9.5,
files,
mentioned at \fIRANDFILE\fP below,
can be Entropy Gathering Daemon (EGD) sockets.
Also, and if exists,
\fI~/.entropy\fP and \fI/tmp/entropy\fP
will be used to initialize SSL library functions.
Specified sockets must be owned by the user
and have permission of 600 (octal number representing).
.
.TP
.SM
.B EMAIL
The user's email address.
.
.TP
.SM
.B HOME
Full path of the user's home directory.
.
.TP
.SM
.B MAIL
Full path of the user's spool mailbox.
.
.TP
.SM
.B MAILCAPS
Path to search for mailcap files.
If unset,
a RFC1524 compliant search path that is extended with NeoMutt related paths
(at position two and three):
.\" .RS
.\" .IP
.RI \(dq \
"$HOME/\:.mailcap" \:: \
"@MAN_DATADIR@/\:mailcap" \:: \
"@MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/\:mailcap" \:: \
"/etc/\:mailcap" \:: \
"/usr/\:etc/\:mailcap" \:: \
"/usr/\:local/\:etc/\:mailcap" \(dq
.\" .RE
.\" .IP
will be used instead.
.
.TP
.SM
.B MAILDIR
Full path of the user's spool mailbox if \fIMAIL\fP is unset.
Commonly used when the spool mailbox is a
.BR maildir (5)
folder.
.
.TP
.SM
.B MM_NOASK
If this variable is set,
mailcap are always used without prompting first.
.
.TP
.SM
.B NNTPSERVER
Similar to configuration variable $news_server,
specifies the domain name or address of the default NNTP server to connect.
If unset,
\fI@MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/nntpserver\fP is used but can be overridden by command line
option \fB\-g\fP.
.
.TP
.SM
.B RANDFILE
Like configuration variable $entropy_file,
defines a path to a file which
includes random data that is used to initialize SSL library functions.
If unset,
\fI~/.rnd\fP is used.
DO NOT store important data in the specified file.
.
.TP
.SM
.B REPLYTO
When set,
specifies the default Reply-To address.
.
.TP
.SM
.B TEXTDOMAINDIR
Defines an absolute path corresponding to \fI@MAN_TEXTDOMAINDIR@\fP that
will be recognised by GNU
.BR gettext (1)
and used for Native Language Support (NLS) if enabled.
.
.TP
.SM
.B TMPDIR
Directory in which temporary files are created.
Defaults to \fI/tmp\fP if unset.
Configuration variable $tmp_dir takes precedence over this one.
.
.TP
.SM
.B VISUAL
Specifies the editor to use when composing messages.
.
.TP
.SM
.B XDG_CONFIG_DIRS
Specifies a X Desktop Group (XDG) compliant location
for the system-wide configuration file,
as described in \fIFILES\fP section below.
This variable defaults to \fI/etc/xdg\fP.
Bypass loading with command line option \fB\-n\fP.
.
.TP
.SM
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Specifies a XDG compliant location for the user-specific configuration file,
as described in \fIFILES\fP section below.
This variable defaults to \fI$HOME/.config\fP.
Can be overridden by command line option \fB\-F\fP.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "\s-1Configuration files\s0"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
NeoMutt will read just the first found
configuration file of system-wide and user-specific category,
from the list below and in that order.
.
.PP
But it allows building of a recursive configuration
by using the \fBsource\fP command.
.
.PP
.na
.TS
allbox tab(|);
cb cb cb
r lxi lxi .
\0#N|system-wide|user-specific
1|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/\:neomutt/\:neomuttrc
T}|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/\:neomutt/\:neomuttrc
T}
2|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/\:neomutt/\:Muttrc \fB*\fP\fR)\fP
T}|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/\:neomutt/\:muttrc
T}
3|T{
\%@MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/\:neomuttrc
T}|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/\:mutt/\:neomuttrc
T}
4|T{
\%@MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/\:Muttrc \fB*\fP\fR)\fP
T}|T{
\%$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/\:mutt/\:muttrc
T}
5|T{
\%@MAN_DATADIR@/\:neomuttrc
T}|T{
\%~/\:.neomutt/\:neomuttrc
T}
6|T{
\%@MAN_DATADIR@/\:Muttrc \fB*\fP\fR)\fP
T}|T{
\%~/\:.neomutt/\:muttrc
T}
.T&
r c li .
7|\(em|~/.mutt/neomuttrc
8|\(em|~/.mutt/muttrc
9|\(em|~/.neomuttrc
10|\(em|~/.muttrc
.T&
l s s .
\0\fB*\fP) Note the case of the filename
.TE
.ad
.
.SS "\s-1Other relevant files\s0"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
Unless otherwise stated,
NeoMutt will process all grouped files in the order
(from top to bottom)
as they are specified in that listing.
.
.TP
.I ~/.mailcap
.TQ
.I @MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/mailcap
User-specific and system-wide definitions for handling non-text MIME types,
look at environment variable \fBMAILCAPS\fP above
for additional search locations.
.
.TP
.I ~/.neomuttdebug0
User's default debug log file.
For further details or customising file path
see command line options \fB\-d\fP and \fB\-l\fP above.
.
.TP
.I /etc/mime.types
.TQ
.I @MAN_SYSCONFDIR@/mime.types
.TQ
.I @MAN_DATADIR@/mime.types
.TQ
.I ~/.mime.types
Description files for
simple plain text mapping between MIME types and filename extensions.
NeoMutt parses these files in the stated order
while processing attachments to determine their MIME type.
.
.TP
.IR @MAN_DOCDIR@/manual. { html , pdf , txt }
The full NeoMutt manual in HTML, PDF or plain text format.
.
.TP
.IR /tmp/neomutt- XXXX-XXXX-XXXX
Temporary files created by NeoMutt.
For custom locations
look at description of the environment variable \fBTMPDIR\fP above.
Notice that the suffix \fI-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX\fP is just a placeholder
for, e.g.\& hostname, user name/ID, process ID and/or other random data.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
See issue tracker at <https://github.com/neomutt/neomutt/issues>.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NO WARRANTIES
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" sorted by category and name
.BR gettext (1),
.BR msmtp (1),
.BR notmuch (1),
.BR sendmail (1),
.BR smail (1),
.BR RAND_egd (3),
.BR curses (3),
.BR ncurses (3),
.BR mailcap (5),
.BR maildir (5),
.BR mbox (5),
.BR neomuttrc (5).
.
.PP
For further NeoMutt information:
.RS 4
.TP
\(bu the full manual, see \fIFILES\fP section above
.TQ
\(bu the home page, <https://neomutt.org>
.RE
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
Richard Russon and friends.
Use <neomutt-devel@\:neomutt.org> to contact the developers.
.
